## Introduction

Included are four Python scripts and one R script written during my Ph.D. for various aspects of data analysis on different projects. GCFID8860 extracts, compiles, and applies a calibration curve
to gas chromatograph data. RNAheatmap uses processed RNAseq differential gene expression data to generate a gene expression heatmap for a given pathway. CDS_curator and 
GC3_tabulator are a pair of scripts used in conjunction with a third party program, CodonW, to visualize variations in third codon GC content through the yeast genome. DGE_analysis_SC is an end-to-end RNAseq processing script, accepting yeast featureCounts output and performing differential expression analysis, generating heatmaps based on a gene dendrogram, and identifying enriched GO terms and KEGG pathways

## GCFID8860.py

This script extracts chromatographic run data from the folders generated by an Agilent 8860 GCFID by retrieving peak retention times and areas from the CSV file produced each run. 
Retention times are matched against a provided list to identify specific compounds of interest and the internal standard peak on the chromatogram, then each peak is normalized and
the calibration curve included in the retention times list is applied to calculate concentrations. The final results in the output file are the concentrations of each compound of
interest, for each GC run.

## RNAheatmap.py

This script is used to convert processed differential gene expression (DGE) data (from RNAseq analysis pipelines such as from edgeR, limma-voom, or deseq2) into a gene expression
heatmap for a provided list of genes. A provided list of gene symbols (from a particular pathway, for example) is used to search the DGE data and retrieve the log2-fold change in
expression for each gene in the list at each condition. The grid of expression data for each gene at each condition is used to generate the heatmap.

## CDS_curator.py

This is the first of two scripts used to visualize the third codon GC content (GC3 content) of a provided genome. A preexisting third party program, CodonW, was used to compute
the GC3 content of each gene from a list of coding sequences. Because the available list of Rhodosporidium coding sequences contained many gene fragments incompatible with the
CodonW software, this script screens each sequence to see if it begins with ATG and ends with a stop codon. If so, the gene ID and sequence is saved and an output file is
generated as input for CodonW.

## GC3_tabulator.py

CodonW generates a list of gene IDs with an associated GC3 content. This script matches each gene ID-GC3 content pair from the CodonW output with the start and end locus of the
gene's ORF, obtained from a provided genomic annotations file, for a particular assembly scaffold. The gene ID of each ORF is used to search the annotation file and the list of
geneID-GC3 content-ORF coordinates is output.

## DGE_analysis_SC.R

This R script accepts a list of featureCounts files produced from RNAseq data and uses the edgeR Bioconductor package to perform differential expression analysis. Various visualizations of the input data are generated, such as mapping read fates and drawing a MDS plot for the samples. Specified comparisons are performed, and used to draw a global clustered heatmap of significantly differentially expressed genes. Enriched GO terms and KEGG pathways from any comparisons are also created.
